by runner, by messenger.
And they didn't have near the number of radios and things like that that we did.
So they were, I'd say, considerably there, other than the
in the automatic weapons.
Now they believed in firepower and not in aimed fire.
This was one of the biggest difference between us and the British even, but more so between us and the Russians.
The Russians nearly all of them had
Automatic weapons, particularly submachine guns are typical.
I don't know what the name of them was, but they, you know, had the round magazine on them that, and they fired lots of, lots of ammunition, but not, they didn't use much anything to fire.
Did you all ever have any problems with the Russians, men?
Well, I kind of defend them now.
The biggest problem was it was not long after the fighting was over till it was evident that there was a conflict in philosophy.
We just didn't think like the Russians, particularly in dealing with the German people.
Of course, we had not had Leningrad and some of the other things that weren't too favorable to the Germans.
And the Russians were, with some justification, they didn't like the Germans any at all.
One of the biggest, one of the things that we would encounter
Of course, after we broke through the Siegfried mine and got into the heart of German property, we didn't have any, other than just minor skirmishes, we didn't have any real tough hand-to-hand type fighting.
If normally we could, anything we ran into,
massing enough artillery, firepower, calling enough air force, we had more airplanes over there than we knew what to do with it, really.
Another thing that was kind of interesting over there was the first time that I ever saw a jet airplane.
The Germans sent two jets over to
bomb the bridge that we, we put in two bridges across the River, and they sent two, two jets over there to destroy that bridge.
Well, these jets had so much speed that the Germans didn't know how to use it, so they couldn't drop the bomb within 500 yards, except by accident of where they aimed it, because they didn't have any way of, they just,
over and dropped the bomb and hoped it hit something.
But we had a battalion anti-aircraft attached to us, which had twin 40 millimeter anti-aircraft, and they were good.
If a plane came over within eight to ten thousand feet or lower, they didn't miss it
The only way that the plane got over us was flying above the range of the guns that they had.
But this, this colonel of this anti-aircraft battalion, I don't remember his name, he's a big, tall, slender, red-headed fellow, but he came in almost shaking in his boots after the raid by the Germans with each jet aircraft.
because he says these planes are flying faster than I can track them with these, or our gunners can track them.
And I don't know what we're going to do.
We just have to guess at where they might be and hope we've got a gun pointed in that direction.
But our early control, the way we controlled the jet, the combat, the jet aircraft, the Germans,
were just mass planes.
We had so many planes in the air that we'd just box in, just build them, just circle the plane, put enough up above them to where they, and run them out of fuel.
They couldn't, if they started to go through there, they had this much firepower there, they could, and that, that was, uh.
How, uh, once the war is over,
What was it like to be part of the occupation force?
How did the Germans react, and how did you all relate to them?
Well, the Germans, of course, were very organized kind of people, and it wasn't long before they had some semblance of control of their people.
I mean they they had they've got records of where people are and where their families came from and what kind of work they did and anybody that came in there they they assigned them housing and they what our we had we had a
two or three main objectives.
One was to keep the infrastructure working, the water system, the sewer system, to see that there was enough coal, generally speaking, to fire the generators, which was of course the key to keeping the water system and most everything else running, and we tried to
get the railroads, and did get the railroads back into operation, so he could move some of the basic foods around there.
Germans were low on food, but of course we were bringing food products and everything else in by big bunches.
The problem was moving it, but it wasn't long before the, once the Germans saw what we were trying to do, well they had people to
meat trucks and trains and other things and move this and put it out and instigate a distribution system that worked.
I was not involved and as I recall it there was little or no crime or anything of that there wasn't any stealing or
Fievery, or killings, or anything like that, that I'm aware of.
So it was not a, not, it wasn't too tough in that respect.
So I stayed there, of course the fighting was over in, I believe May, four or five, essentially, and it was,
It's December of 45 before I came home, so.
Then you're discharged?
Yeah, I came home and landed it.
Came home on a victory ship.
Left France, Marseille, France, and came through the Straits of Gibraltar.
Now this is in early January.
and we headed across the North Atlantic and we ran into a storm where the waves were 60 feet high at least.
You looked out and you know 30-40 feet up above the ship at the top of these waves.
It was so cold that all the rigging on the ship, ice froze over
the cables and lines and things on the ship got to be three or four inches in diameter and the storm got so bad that they finally backed out of it and we detoured about 1,500 miles to the south around the storm.
So we were at sea another ten days or so longer than a normal trip across, but we landed in Hampton Roads in Virginia.
stayed there a few days and then came I was discharged from Camp Maxie.
How did you get railroad?
Yeah I was I was in charge of about 12-15 soldiers of different places most of them coming back to Texas but there was a few of them getting off in Arkansas and some other places they didn't have anything to do but just carry the paperwork and
And so you're coming back to Kasey or to Bay City?
Well, neither one.
My dad's still working for J.S.
Abercrombie, but he was building wells down in the valley.
Okay.
And my other dad was living in Harlington, and my mother was teaching school down there on a temporary teacher certificate because of the shortage of teachers.
So I came into Camp Fanning, caught a bus and went into Dallas, visited an ant there in Dallas for a day or two, and then flew a DC-3 down to Harlan.
And stayed down there for, I don't know, a month or so.
did a little visiting around and I came back to Bay City and went back to work with John Roethere on survey group.
Okay.
And this was this was in the late winter of 46.
You have any idea what your pay was in 46?
No, I don't.
It, it is probably two and a half an hour or something like that.
Uh, it wasn't, I didn't work that way very long until they started a, uh, a new irrigation project down at, uh, Portavaca.
And I moved down to Port Lavaca, and we set up an office down there and kind of entered into a kind of a loose partnership, John, John Rother and I. And I ran that on there.
Spell his name.
R-O-T-H-E-R.
A hundred and ten percent German.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, well, you're, you're German, aren't you?
It is, yeah.
Many of the people down there, particularly in the farming and ranching area in that part of the country, were German.
And this was back during the time when you went out and worked for, did survey work for a German family, about 10 o'clock in the morning when they brought out a meal for you almost.
sandwiches and bread and butter and ham and cookies and cake and milk and whatever.
When did you start thinking about going to Texas A&M?
Well when I graduated from high school we never did go hungry but we didn't have any money.
and when I say any, that's what I'm talking about.
I could not afford to go, to do anything but go to work.
After I came back, went, went back to work, John Rose, who went down to Port Rebecca and put in this irrigation system down there, and a lot of the rice farmers,
who had formed in the Bay City area moved down there to that burgeon land and put in new land well all this had to be contoured and had to be canals run and all this so we did a lot of I did we did a lot of survey and some engineering down there after that was over there wasn't too much work
going on there, and I moved back up to Bay City.
And then I went to work for J.S.
Abercrombie in their survey department over at Sweeney.
They were running pipelines and doing these surveys and making well locations, so I went to work on there.
Left John went to work on their survey crew.
I had met Flores, I guess, I don't know, early 48, 47 maybe.
Anyway, in February of 49, we got married.
And I was working, still working at ASF probably.
And I was making $2.85 an hour, I remember that.
when I got married.
At that point in time, Abercrombie was talking about selling out, which he later did.
So I began to think.
First place I'd gotten as high up as I could go with the education that I had in working for Abercrombie.
And at that point in time, it was, it was a pretty fair job.
Uh, in the, so got married in the summer of 49, or early spring of 49, I guess it was, I took the examination to become licensed, to get my license as a, as a state licensed land surveyor.
Then there was a little more talk about Abercrombie selling out, so Floris and I
got to talking.
They said, well, maybe I could go to school on the GI Bill and she could come and go to work at A&M maybe.
She said, I will go up there to A&M and I'll see if I can get a job.
And then in September, well you can see if you apply for A&M and in September you can move up there.
So that's the way it worked.
She came up here and
Got a job at A&M in the agriculture department.
Stayed at the old Blue Top Courts, which is over about where Best Buy and Red Lobster and all that is over right now.
And I applied early and been accepted to A&M.
in September I came up here and we moved out to the Annex all the freshmen were all out at the Annex and the only place to stay out there was A&M furnished married student housing in the old bachelor officers quarters on the air base out there.
About how many married students were there?
they were probably staying out there there was less than a dozen but a an apartment consisted of one room about about the size of that living room and probably about six the whole thing was about sixteen feet no twenty feet square
If you can imagine cutting a line across that and making a two rooms ten by twenty.
The front part of that would have been the living room.
Now the back half of that cut that half in two and you had two ten by ten.
One of them was a bedroom, and the other was a kitchen dining room.
Now, there was no running water in the building, and no bathroom.
Down at the end of the street was a latrine, officer's latrine had been there, and about a block over was another one, and they made one of them was women, and one of them was men.
So, Forrest and I moved in there.
Do you remember what it cost?
No, I don't.
But I really don't remember paying anything for it.
But it must have been a little something.
I'd say probably less than $10 a month.
So was there even a sink?
So you could bring water and... They had a cabinet unit that was prefabricated.
And it had...
a sink in the middle here and it had above the sink it was two two cabinets that opened up and down below there was a place where you could put pots and pans.
Now it did have electricity.
Was it was it furnished with was there some furniture?
No.
You had to bring your own okay.
We had a we had an electric roaster
a toaster, and an electric skillet, an electric coffee pot.
Now, you could run two of those appliances at the time, all right, but if you turn the other one on, it threw the breaker in there, so you couldn't, you had to be careful.
So, you're saying y'all had no stove?
there was no cook stove.
That's what I mean.
There was a space heater.
Yeah, but no cook stove.
In the living room part of this to keep warm by.
Now the partitions in there that I was talking about liked about 18 inches reaching the floor and about 18 inches reaching the ceiling.
So one space heater heated the whole thing.
What I did, we were at the, in the apartment
closest to the men's latrine which was about 75 feet away I guess outside the latrine there was a water faucet just like a lawn faucet I bought a hundred feet of quarter inch copper line went out there and dug up that faucet
took the elbow off of it, put a T in there, and there was a connection that would fit that faucet.
Dug me a little trench about six or eight inches deep, run that copper line around and ran it up through the house.
And then I connected a garden hose and ran it from the sink out into the ditch on the road out there.
So we had to be careful what we put in the sink.
But you could kind of wash dishes and whatnot there, and we did have cold water, of course.
Did you ask any official permission to put that line, that connection in?
No, I just did it one Saturday afternoon when there wasn't many folks around.
And when we left there, I took that wire up and put the line back just like it was.
Now, that was for one semester.
The next semester, we moved up into...
housing by the, which was duplexes, up by the gate, which had been base housing at the Air Force Base, and that's where these were nice quarters.
How were y'all, when you first arrived out at the base, how were you received?
Was there any kind of, and how did you get that particular place to live?
Did somebody take you over there and show you, or what?
Yeah, they took us over and they said, here, we've got a whole row of these buildings, which one do you want apartments here?
Of course, we took one down closest to the latrine.
Now, you were a veteran, and about how many veterans were there in the freshman that year?
I don't know.
The majority of the veterans had returned back and finished their education.
By 1949.
That's what I thought.
There was a good many of them had already completed their education and was gone.
I'm going to say that something on the order of a third probably were veterans.
Because now you were older than a bunch of the seniors.
That's right, that's right.
And who all was out at the airbase?
Just the freshmen?
Just the freshmen.
All right, who was out there to take control and get y'all into the traditions of A&M and into the Corps and all that?
I don't recall anybody.
Now there was some kind of orientation
classes held in the old theater out there.
But this was everybody, and it was not a compulsory thing.
I mean, you know, they didn't check roles or anything like that.
But how many students were out there?
A thousand?
I don't think there's any more than that.
I'm not sure that all of the freshmen were out there.
Okay, but the only people who were out there were freshmen.
That's right.
Were you all in uniform?
Even you veterans?
No, no.
What did you wear to class?
Well, mostly, I mostly wore uniform, but it was one that was left over from my Army career.
Now, I guess,
All new entering students were in the Corps, but the veteran had the choice.
When I went in, I was told, you know, that I could go into ROTC or else, but they gave me credit for all the ROTC hours from having commissioned.
So did you, did you join the Corps that freshman year?
No.
Okay.
No, I never.
So you didn't have to fall into March to class or anything?
No.
How did you register for your classes?
I registered before I came to A&M, and then I was just given the schedule.
Okay.
Building number and the time, and I went to classes.
Describe those, those classes, please.
Well, most of them, of course, were big, big classes.
I mean, there was anywhere from, you know, 200 or so in the classes, and they were just the typical basic freshman courses.
Do you remember some of the teachers?
No, I sure don't.
Like, I know Harrison Hearth in English was out there.
And wasn't Tom Harrington in charge or was it somebody else?
Harrington was, yeah, I think, I believe he was in charge of that.
I don't, I should remember an English teacher, but I don't.
Pierce.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
I remember he was an English teacher.
And I think some of the other teachers, like in math and
in chemistry and things like that.
I believe there may have been a lot of graduate students out there.
I know there was in the laboratory.
Now, and you were at that point going to major in what?
Civil engineering.
That was your choice?
When I enrolled, I came up here to get a degree in civil engineering.
I never considered anything else, and that's what I worked for.
How determined were you to do the work well?
Well, I don't know how to, I don't know how to answer that, but not, not only me, but I think many of the people of my time, failure wasn't an option.
That's right.
You set out to do something, and you did it.
You didn't, you, you,
You didn't have a plan B in case you didn't make it.
And how many years was it going to take you to get your degree?
Well, I was entitled to, I believe it was 48 months under the GI Bill, and I went 48 months.
And you were going to finish?
I had, as I recall, 160 some odd hours
I had more hours than I needed.
I went every semester and every summer, and I worked besides that.
Now, after my sophomore year, we moved over to the College View.
College View.
But let's stick with that first year.
Describe a typical day
for you and your wife, what time did you get up, because she had to come over to the campus, and what did you do all, what was the day like?
Describe the whole day.
Got up by what time?
Oh, probably 6.30 in the morning.
Of course, we ate breakfast.
She faked breakfast with a little bit of help from me, and she went in to campus, and it was
She and one or two other ladies that lived out there rode together and came, she came into the campus.
I went to my first class and then they, they'd taken
one of the old buildings out there and made it into a recreational hall sort of and there was a PX out there that where you could get a sandwich and coffee and things like that and there was there was three or four of us that were all veterans that became acquainted with one another and we when we any of us any two of us had
free time where we'd probably meet over and drink coffee sometimes we'd play checkers and dominoes or something of that sort there wasn't any and then where'd you eat lunch oh I usually eat a sandwich or something there maybe at the PX or I'd go go back over to the apartment and make me a sandwich or something and where did you study they had a
in in the rec hall out there which had been the what had it been in the military I don't know it'd been a recreation room in the military there was places there it was big enough to where there was and it was divided up such that you could go over there and study and
And then I'd just go back home and study there in the apartment there.
And how did you, your first semester, how did the grades come out?
I don't remember.
I passed everything, but I don't, I wasn't an honor student and never was.
Was it easy or hard or?
It was very hard for me to get back into the routine of study.
Of course, I'd come out of a little bitty high school, and the math particularly was hard.
Math, although I chose a career that's got lots of math.